now that we've had a look at the key principles involved in performing excess lt
transformations.
But the rest of this section will focus on a particular transformation.
Plan 05 used in excess lt style sheets.
Let's now move into number two,
creating new elements.
I've got a couple of pdf diagrams in here which illustrate the transformation that will be
doing This is the Input XML document that will be using on.
We have encountered a couple of times in the course we have brawn chases the root element,
and we're interested in the data.
But the problem is that the data exists at three different levels.
So we have the branch men into data at one level,
the department head data at one level and then the stuff member data as 1/3 level.
And for this reason,
we're not able to import the XML into a single exceptional table.
So what we'll do is to create an excess lt style sheet,
but will transform that XML into an excel friendly format.
So here's the output document that we want.
The root element will be people and inside that will have a repeated element called person
,
which contains the original child elements that were at three different levels.
I will dispense with the photo element.
Since this is Exelon,
we won't be displaying people's photos and to distinguish between the various staff members
.
We'll have three new attributes.
The role will specify the person's job role and that will just be picked up from the
original input document said.
We'll pick up by the branch manager,
head or staff member,
and then we'll specify the branch in which the person works and the department and again,
as we transform the document,
we'll just pick up that information from these two attributes.
So Branch has an attribute called Name,
which is the name of the branch on similarly department as an attribute,
also called Name,
which will be the name of the department.
So that's the transformation that we're planning in the section on.
We'll just take it one step at a time.
So as a first step in this video will look at creating new elements and the syntax that's
used within an excess lt style treat for doing that.
Let's begin by opening branches dot xml.
And now let's have a look at the style sheet So we started with the bare bones.
We've got the XML declaration and then the obligatory parent element Xsl style Street with
the correct name Space Declaration.
So if you remember there to top level elements,
so let's just put those in xsl outputs.
And then we need at least one xsl templates element,
so to finish off the out.
But we,
first of all,
specify Method and Frank,
so this is always XML.
I'll mention the second parameter just to remind you,
but it's not particularly important for Excel,
and that's indent.
Since we won't see the transformed document,
we'll only see an XML table.
It doesn't really matter.
But I just put that in there just to remind you.
Now we come to the template to specify which part of the input document is being targeted
by kicking template.
We use the match attribute and then for the first template.
We always target the entire document by using a forward slashes the value which targets the
document root and everything in the document is a child of the document root and just
remind you why this is so that we don't have any input which is not catered for by our star
trees so we won't get any unpredictable results.
So going back to branches,
the first thing we want to do is to replace branches with a new parent element called
people.
So inside our main template,
we now use xsl element,
which is the element that's used for creating elements.
So we have the element element,
and then we specify name equals people.
So so far,
our main template generates just one piece of output,
and that is the root element,
which we've called people to specify what goes inside it.
We would then typically use xsl apply templates,
and this enables us to point to any part of the input tree that we want to process.
So any part of the input tree that's not addressed will simply be ignored that will not be
present in the output document.
So this is why it's so important that our first template matches the entire document,
because what it means is that weaken suppress anything that we don't want simply by not
targeted it with an xsl applied templates statement.
So this occasion,
when we use xsl apply templates,
we want to assemble the branch manager head and stuff member elements.
And there's a very useful export operator for doing this,
which is the union operator written as the pipe character.
Let's see what this looks like.
So here we use xsl,
apply templates,
and then we use the Select a tribute to specify what we're targeting.
And as we saw in the last section,
we can either put an absolute part,
starting with forward slash what we can use this very convenient double forward slash,
which is a short cut for descendant or self,
and this effectively enables us to jump to any section off the input document.
So first of all,
we want to jump to branch manager Bronze,
underscore Manager.
Then we use the pint character to combine branch manager with another section of the input
document.
So we do forward,
slash forward slash head another union character and finally descendant It'll self stuff on
the school member.
So this fairly short statement is very powerful because it enables us to combine three
notes sets from different sections of the document into one note set,
and to specify what happens to this combined note said,
we now create another template which targets exactly the same note set,
so this time I'll match will be the same as the contents of that select.
So this template is saying,
is that every time we encounter a branch manager,
head or staff member element,
this is what we want to happen.
And of course,
what we want to happen is the creation of a person element.
And as we've just seen,
the same tax for creating an element is xsl element.
Name equals person and for this video will leave it at that.
So just to recap what we've done,
we've created a template that targets the entire input document.
And we specified which nodes we want to appear in the output document I use in an xsl apply
template statement.
And now we specify and what we want to happen to each element within that note set.
And so far,
what we said is create an element called person.
So if the original XML contains 1000 branch manager,
head and staff member combined elements,
we'll end up with 1000 person elements.
At this point in time,
it's gonna be an empty element.
There'll be nothing inside it,
but the element will exist.
So that's it for this video.
Let's just save out changes.
Let's finish by testing what we've got so far.
And just to remind you normally you would be going into developer using one of the commands
in the XML group.
But were you working with XML Transformation?
What you have to do is to go to file open and access the XML file that way.
So we go across to creating new elements and branches on because it contains the style
sheet processing instruction.
Excel displays this dialogue that allows us to choose branches but xsl to do the
transformation.
Then we have the standard warning message.
We can leave the defaults XML table option and click.
OK,
I can understand it message.
And here we've got a person column with lots of empty rows and they could go across the
developer source.
That's what we've got so far.
We have people as the root element and then person as the repeating child element.
Let's just look at what this looks like as an XML document.
So before we can export this,
we need to put something in each of these rows,
so I'll just put person one and then just company that down.
And now we've got something that we can export export older,
too.
Let's go with people and let's have a look at the result in documents.
So that's the XML output that's being generated by our style Street.
So far,
we've got the people root element and then lots of empty person elements inside it.
So in the next video,
we'll move on to look at using XSL Copy Off,
which is one of the key elements that's used for transferring information from the input
document into the Output XML document.